Hello, in this segment I'm going to
introduce the task of information
retrieval including in particular what's
now the dominant form, web search.
The task of information retrieval
can be maybe defined as follows
that our goal is finding material,
which is usually documents of
an unstructured nature, usually text that
satisfies an information need,
that's what the person is looking for
information on from within large
collections, usually stored on computers.
So there's lots of mentions
there of prototypical cases, and
other kinds of information retrieval
do exist, so that things like
music information retrieval, where
there are sounds, not text documents.
But effectively what we're
going to talk about here
is the case where all of
those usually falls as hold.
There are many scenarios for
information retrieval.
The one that people think of first these
days is almost unbearably web search.
But there are many others,
so searching your email, searching
the contents of your laptop computer,
finding stuff in some company's knowledge
base, doing legal information retrieval to
find relevant cases from legal context or
something like that.
It's always been the case the large
percentage of human knowledge and
information is stored in the full
of human language documents.
And yet, there's also for a long time
been something of a paradox there.
So, this is just a kind of not quite
real graph to give a flavor of things.
Don't really believe the numbers on the
left hand side or exactly what they mean.
But what we're showing is
that in the mid 1990s,
it was already the case that if
you looked at the volume of data,
that there was some data that
was in structured forms.
By that I mean things like relational
databases and spreadsheets, but
there was already vastly more data in
companies, organizations, and around
people's homes that was in unstructured
form, in the form of human language text.
However despite that, in the mid 1990s,
structured data management and
retrieval was a developed field in
their already large database companies,
where in the field of unstructured
data management there was very little.
There are a few teeny little
companies that did various kinds
of corporate document retrieval and
things like that.
That situation just completely changed
around the turn of the millennium.
So if we look today,
the situation is like this, so the data
volumes have gotten larger on both sides,
but in particular they've gotten larger on
the unstructured side with the massive
outpouring of blogs, tweets, forums,
and all those other places that now
store massive amounts of information.
But, there's also then been
a turnaround on the corporate side.
So now we have huge companies that
are addressing the problems of
unstructured information retrieval
such as the major web search giants.
So let's start and just say a little
bit about what is the basic framework
of doing information retrieval?
So we start off by assuming
that we've got a collection
of documents over which
we're going to do retrieval.
And at the moment we're going to assume
that it's just a static collection.
Later on we'll deal with when
documents get added to and
deleted from that collection, and
how we can go out and find them in
something like a web search scenario.
Then our goal is to retrieve
documents that are relevant
to the user's information need and
helps the user complete a task.
Let me go through that once more a little
bit more slowly with this picture.
So at the start, what we have is the user
has some task that they want to perform.
Let's take a concrete example.
Suppose what I want to do is get rid
of the mice that are in my garage.
And I'm the kind of person that doesn't
really want to kill them with poison.
So that's my user task
that I want to achieve.
And so to achieve that task,
I feel that I need more information.
And so this is the information need.
I want to know about getting rid
of mice without killing them.
This information need is the thing with
respect of which we assess in information
retrieval system but we can't just
take someone's information need and
stick it straight into a computer.
So what we have to do to be able
to stick it into a computer
is to translate the information need into
something that goes into the search box.
And so, that's what's happened here.
We now have a query, and so here's my
attempt at a query, how trap mice alive.
So that's taken this information need and
I've made an attempt to realize
that as a particular query.
And so then it's that query that goes
into the search engine which leads, which
then interrogates our document collection
and leads to some results coming back.
And that may be the end of the day but
sometimes if I am not satisfied
with how my information retrieval
session is working I might take
the evidence I got from there and
go back and come up with a better query.
So I might decide that alive is a bad word
and put in something like without killing.
And see if that works any better.
Okay, what can go wrong here?
Well, there are a couple of
stages of interpretation here.
So first of all,
there was my initial task and
I had made some decisions as to what
kind of information need I had.
It could be that I got
something wrong there.
So I could have a misconception.
So maybe in getting rid of mice the most
important issue is not whether or not I
kill them but whether I do it humanely.
But we're not going to deal with that
issue so much, what we're more interested
in here is the translation between
the information need and the query.
And there are lots of ways
in which that can go wrong
in misformulation of the query.
So I might choose the wrong words to
express the query, I might make use of
query search operators like inverted
commas which might have a good or
bad effect on how the query actually
works, and so those are choices in my
query formulation which aren't altering
my information need whatsoever.
That's important when we talk about how to
evaluate information retrieval systems.
That's a topic we'll say more about later,
but let me just give you the first rough
sense of this because we'll need it for
everything that we do.
So whenever we make a query to an
information retrieval system we're going
to get some documents back, and we want
to know whether the results are good.
And the very basic way in which
we're going to see whether they
are good is as follows.
We're going to think of two
measures which are complementary,
one of which is precision.
So precision is the fraction of
the retrieved documents in the system
that are relevant to
the user's information needs.
So that's whether when you look at the
results it seems like one document in ten
is relevant to the information
need you have or
whether seven documents in ten are.
That's assessing whether the mix of
stuff you are getting back has a lot of
bad results in it.
The complementary mixture
measure is the one of recall.
Recall is measuring how much of the good
information that's in the document
collection is the system succeeding and
finding for
you at the fraction of relevant docs
in the collection that are retrieved.
We'll give more precise definitions and
measurements for
information retrieval later.
But the one thing I want to express right
now is that for these measures to make
sense they have to be evaluated with
respect to the user's information need.
For certain kinds of queries,
such as the ones we'll look at in the
following segments the documents that get
returned are deterministic in
terms of what query is submitted.
So if we were just going to evaluate
what gets returned with respect to
the user's query, then we'd necessarily
say that the precision is 100%.
But that's not what we do.
What we do is think about
the user's information need and
the precision of the results
is assessed relative to that.
So in particular, if we just look back for
a moment, if there's being
a misformulation of the query by the user,
or just they didn't come up with a very
good query, that will be seen as lowering
the precision of the return results.
Okay, this is only the very beginning of
our looking at information retrieval.
But I hope you've already
got a sense of how we
think of the task of
information retrieval and
roughly how we can see whether a search
engine is doing a good or a bad job on it.